hello listeners welcome back to Luke's
English podcast this is a podcast for
Learners of English around the world and
my aim with these episodes is to help
you get more listening practice into
your life and uh to ultimately help you
build your English in the process so um
this episode is going to be a sort of
Story episode but it's a little bit
different to the usual stories I do um
I'll be doing one of those kind of text
adventure stories or
U what's also called interactive fiction
which means I'll be going through a
story uh which I found online um and
it's one of those interactive stories
which means that you get to make choices
at various points in the story which
probably affect the way the story
progresses now in the past I've done
these text adventure stories and
previously they've been mostly kind of
like detective stories also there was a
kind of a Horror Story as well um and
also there was that story where we had
to imagine that we were a lemon uh
trying to escape from a kitchen without
being chopped up and turned into a juice
or something like that um do you
remember that one the lemon adventure
story now this one I'm going to do today
is a little bit different because in
this one we have to basically put
ourselves in the shoes of a normal
person trying to go through a normal day
in their life just an ordinary day
someone attempting to pass through the
day and do the sorts of things that we
often will do in our day you know like
booking to make a reservation arranging
meetings you know just all sorts of
normal things but the challenge here for
this person is
that uh this person has um disfluent
speech or this person um suffers from a
stammer or a stutter a speech impediment
and we're going to see how dealing with
a speech impediment in your everyday
life can be incredibly uh frustrating
and annoying okay so a speech impediment
um stammer or stutter so these are two
words for the same thing a stammer and a
stutter or to stammer and to stutter
right stammer is the British English
word stutter is the American English
word they both mean exactly the same
same thing the symptoms of a stammer or
a stutter the symptoms of stammering
include um things like um repeating
certain syllables of words when you say
them um so for example um if if the word
if the problematic word for example is
is the word podcast it would be saying
pod cast like that you see or prolonging
certain sounds of words
so um in this episode of my pod in this
episode of my
podcast um or long stops or blocks as
you're speaking a sentence so that would
be
long
stops or uh or blocks when you're trying
to record
your podcast
right and also other symptoms would be
simply getting very frustrated as you
try to speak in
sentences um it also might involve um
tension in the face when trying to speak
or even the lips moving shaking or or
kind of
trembling and generally having
difficulty speaking in Social or public
settings okay now some people uh
experience this um it's apparently it's
more common in
childhood um but it's not unusual for
some s for some symptoms to continue
into
adulthood I mean I think that most
people stammer and stutter a little bit
when they're speaking and this is
exacerbated by stress U like when you're
speaking in public but having a a a
genuine speech impediment um is a
totally different thing and it can be
very very frustrating and debilitating I
think um the famous depiction of this
one of the famous depictions of this and
there aren't that many um depictions or
accurate Fair depictions of speech
impediments in the media in movies and
things like that we don't there aren't
that
many um representations of it but one
famous example is the film The King's
Speech uh which was a an Oscar winning
film from a few years ago it's when was
it maybe
2012 or something like that do you know
that film Colin furth uh in that film is
the actor he plays King George I 6 um
who was uh Queen Elizabeth's father
right so the king before Queen Elizabeth
now we've got King Charles before that
Queen Elizabeth II before that it was
King George V 6 and King George V 6
actually had a a
stammer and he had it from childhood and
it continued into
adulthood and um this was a you know
major problem for him and in the film we
see King George I 6 attempting to deal
with the stammer while preparing to make
various uh very important speeches to
the nation during World War II so you
see um Colin fur acting as King George
trying to overcome his stammer why do
people have St stammers um it's I mean
it's I think it's not
completely clear but I think the
experts Now understand that stamas are
caused by uh uh Connections in the brain
neural
connections not being connected normally
does that make sense so you know your
your brain is a series of sort of
electrical connections nerve nerve
connections uh those connections are
respons ible for making your body do
things and certain I guess there are
certain connections responsible for
making speech happen for controlling
your mouth uh the the vocal tract you
know the parts of your body that are
responsible for making words come out
for for speech it's actually must be a
very sophisticated and
complicated process right that we're
able to make these very subtle sounds
and Link all these sounds together and
so on
um and but for some people uh those
neural connections are not wired in the
normal way and as a result um the
connection from the brain to the mouth
for example is blocked and so uh they
struggle to make those sounds and as a
result you get things like um yeah the
things i' explained before um but it's
it's a neur it's a neural issue rather
than a psychological or behavioral issue
um some people have said that they think
that stammering or speech impediments
are are a result of childhood
trauma um but um it seems that this is
not the case in fact it's simply a
neurological uh issue a physical issue
uh you know brain connection issue and
that that is probably likely to
cause
uh suffering or psychological issues so
if you know kids who grow up with a
stammer are going to probably develop
some issues related to that but it's the
stammer that causes the issues it's not
the psychological issues that cause the
stammer you know and that's an
oldfashioned view that um personality of
the child that the child is nervous or
shy and that's what causes the stammer
but it's likely to be the the other way
round that having the stammer makes um a
child or an adult shy nervous and um
socially uncomfortable right and I'm
curious with this episode to kind of
explore what it would be like to live uh
with a stammer okay so let's go let's
start this game okay I'm I'm going to
open this up now on my computer and see
so I'm now looking at the page on the
interactive fiction database which has
loads of these interactive stories on it
um and so yeah Alice and gray is the
writer you can check out her profile on
ifdb do.org
um about the story there's one line it
says sometimes talking is easier said
than done which is quite nice I mean
here's a bit of
vocab and what I want to do with this
obviously is tell take you through the
story but I also want to uh try to use
the story to teach you bits of
vocabulary as we go you know vocab in
context so easier said than done it's
easier said than done this is a nice
phrase which just means that well it's
fairly clear what it means I suppose but
it's a bit like so you say this when
someone says oh just do this and then
you can say oh well that's easier said
than done meaning it's easy to say it
but it's actually much more difficult to
to really do it for example oh yeah just
you
know um just get like eight in your
IELTS and then you'll be able to apply
to this University so you just need to
get IELTS eight I 7.5 or eight and then
you can apply so just get I you know
just go away spend three months and just
get your English up to um level eight
and get the get an i score of eight and
then you can make your application oh
just get what just get an i eight well
that's that's easier said than done
right meaning it's actually much more
difficult than than that it's so easy to
say it but it's more difficult to say to
do it and so that's quite quite
appropriate that talking is easier said
than done which is quite a nice little
joke let's get
started so
disfluent here we go we're about to
start the game um now we've got some
options at the beginning of the game and
by the way you can play this too and I
recommend that you do it as well that
after listening to this episode that you
go and follow the link in the
description and play the game as well
it'll be a good way to sort of reinforce
a lot of the language that you've heard
me using you'll be able to read it
yourself and maybe make different
options you you choose different options
as you go you might make different
choices and you might get a slightly
different story we've got a few options
here we've got
um credits extras and stuff like that
let's just quickly look at the about
section so it says here disfluent is a
short narrative centered around
communication which uses colors to
indicate the difficulty of delivering
different dialogue options so the story
is written in the text is written in
different colors and I think the
different colors represent what looks
like three different levels of
difficulty in in speaking green yellow
and red so I suppose green is is like
not too difficult yellow is more
difficult and red would be very
difficult so it continues your goal is
simply to get through the day accompl
accomplishing your objectives as best
you can and hopefully finding a bit of
happiness along the way progress is
saved automatically in your browsers
cookies so don't be afraid to live to
live don't be afraid to live it's just
good advice isn't it generally don't be
afraid to live your life don't hide away
uh but no it says don't be afraid to
leave mid playthrough so yeah the you
can just go off and close the window and
when you come back you'll be in the same
place it saves your progress okay um
there are options there's a color blind
friendly mode full screen mode you can
reset all progress as well reset the
cookies uh credits I should read these
out uh written and developed by Allison
gray these awesome people graciously
volunteered their time as play testers
and provided very insightful feedback
Mia the best daughter ever Parker pigeon
whoever that is I suppose that's a
nickname rather than an actual pigeon
which would be impressive if a pigeon
was able to actually play this game and
give feedback on it that would be that
would be good like what what did you
think of the game pigeon cou oh you
liked it
then um Abdullah s Craig kogan and Fay
so those are all people who helped
Allison to make the game um special T
special thanks to The Talented folks who
developed twine and harow as well as
those who contribute their knowledge to
help other users on if forums extra
special thanks to my partner Alex for
his invaluable moral and technical
support for any issues questions
comments another chatter you can contact
the author at Allison gray Allison
Allison hotmail.com messages are always
uh greatly
appreciated um all
right extras she said come back after
finishing the game all right so let's
get started then tick tock tick tock
tick so this is time passing like a
clock ticking Tick Tock he looks at you
expectantly
as the office clock ticks on you're
keenly aware of every second that passes
each one adds another layer to your
embarrassment
why why can't you
answer so clearly we're in an office
situation someone has asked us a
question and we can't
reply and it says well it was nice
meeting you I'm looking forward to
working with you I'm Eric by the way
what's your name
and for some reason we can't say the
name come on just say it it should be so
easy just tell him your
name so hi my name's Eric what's your
name and we're
going struggling to even say on our own
name so what's our name well I'm going
to write my name
Luke
okay Luke you want to say you open your
your mouth but you already know it's in
vain so if you do something in vain it
means that there's no point it's not
going to work you open your mouth you
already know it's in vain nothing comes
out your throat feels tight and your
tongue won't obey
you Eric Chuckles
nervously uh did you forget your
name you hear laughter to the other
people Everyone is looking at you now
you can imagine people laughing
nervously the is ticking louder than
ever taunting you just taunting you it's
kind of
like what
happened oh it was a dream it was a
dream you open your eyes the sun is
streaming into your room blindingly
bright the radio is blaring out a song
you don't recognize blaring out meaning
um the sound is coming out very loudly
the radio is blaring out a song you
don't recognize it's morning you lie
awake for a moment still reeling from
your nightmare you're reeling kind of
like reacting struggling to come to
terms with what happened like you've
been knocked off balance whoa what what
was that about you're still reeling from
your nightmare you can only hope it
won't be prophetic meaning that it not
going to be a prophecy for the future
that it's not going to somehow come
true you groggy glance at your to-do
list for the day if if you feel groggy
it's like you feel in the morning like
oh God just trying to wake up you feel
groggy like you're kind of sleepy you're
still your brain is not very clear you
don't feel very fresh or alert and
groggy is the adverb you groggy glance
at your to-do list you kind of like uh
quickly look at your to-do list the
things you have to do you're going to be
busy running around and speaking to
quite a few people so
talking with people and we have a few
options here talking with people really
energizes you talking with people is
very nice in moderation and talking with
people has never been your strong suit
okay so what's the best option for me
talking with people really energizes you
it's very nice in moderation it's never
been your strong suit um well I I
wouldn't say that talking with people
has never been my strong suit cuz
obviously um you know as a teacher as a
comedian as a podcaster talking with
people is a thing I do a
lot if something is not your strong suit
it's means it's not your strength it's
not the thing you're good at your suit
in this case would be um when playing
cards there are four suits right in a
game of cards there's the hearts the
Diamonds the clubs and the Spades right
and in certain games of cards you will
have a strong suit a suit which is more
powerful for example hearts in this game
are the powerful cards and that's the
strong suit you see what I mean so it's
an idiom your strong suit just means
your your
strength right um that's not true
speaking I'm I'm not too bad at speaking
to people but does it really energize me
um like when I talked about this in that
mbti Personality Test episode from
earlier this year I was talking about
being an extrovert and an introvert
talking with people is great but it it
doesn't always really energize me in
fact sometimes I find it it uh exhausts
me a little bit so I'm sort of in the
middle um I'm not a complete extrovert
I'm not a total introvert I'm sort of
I've got a bit of both so I would say
talking is very nice talking with people
is very nice in moderation if it if if I
have to do too much of it um I start to
get tired for some reason on the podcast
it's a little easier maybe because
there's no actual person here I'm just
talking to a a computer basically um so
I can just keep going and doesn't seem
to be so exhausting anyway uh talking
with people is very nice in moderation
I'm going to choose that so you really
enjoy a good conversation with people
you click with so if you click with
someone it's like someone that you get
on with someone who you feel comfortable
with uh where your personalities seem to
match each other quite
well right so you really enjoy enjoy a
good conversation with people you click
with uh but having a good conversation
can be difficult at times because of
your stutter so this is this game is uh
written in American English I'm guessing
that Allison is uh in the US maybe
Canada I'm not sure but anyway she's
using the word stutter in Canada do they
say stammer or stutter I'm not sure
let's say this is the US and they're
saying stutter so conversation can be
difficult because of your stutter you
don't understand the exact cause of your
disorder to your knowledge science
hasn't quite figured it out yet they
haven't quite science hasn't worked it
out hasn't kind of um understood it yet
but it's most likely something in your
brain not working as it should it's been
Goring away at your speech for most of
your life Goring away there's a g at the
beginning of that word g n a w i n g
Goring Goring away
it looks like gno but it's pronounced
Goring Goring away yeah if something GS
at something you can imagine a little
animal like a rodent maybe a rat a mouse
or a hamster or maybe even a beaver
biting at some wood like biting it again
and again and slowly wearing the wood
down that's Goring away at something
Goring means like biting and chewing on
something and slowly wearing it down you
know like the way a mouse would find a
piece of I don't know well mice kind of
eat everything right uh they might find
a piece of uh a piece of fabric in the
back of a cupboard and kind of chew on
it and G away at it and then when you
get that piece of fabric out you find
all these holes in it oh god look this
this fabric is full of holes this mice
have been Goring away at it or might G
away at electrical
cables I've heard cuz they will Gore
away everything but in this case if
something's Goring away at you it means
it's kind of like there's something that
is uh
repeatedly uh bothering you breaking
something down damaging
it right sometimes we have thoughts
which G away at us like negative
thoughts or um
um self criticisms in the back of our
head which are always there slowly
breaking us
down right or um uh conf confidence
issues which G away at you or thoughts
which G away at you so little negative
things which are biting down repeatedly
and wearing you away so this speech
problem has been Goring away at your
speech for most of your life creating
gaps and distortions in your sentences
the Silver Lining so this is like the
the one positive part of
it this comes from the phrase every
cloud has a silver lining which is
another idiom which means that every bad
thing has something positive in it the
Silver Lining so the one single positive
aspect of this as you see it is that
your condition isn't as severe as it
could have been it isn't as severe isn't
as serious or strong as it could have
been
you have bouts of fluency bouts meaning
periods of
fluency allowing you to pass as a normal
member of society most of the time even
on bad days the telltale signs of an
incoming speech block can help you
anticipate and avoid it telltale
signs right the signs of something the
telltale signs of something signs that
that give something away that reveal
something that you would rather keep
secret or yeah the signs that reveal
something in this case the signs that
reveal that a speech block is
coming so I don't know what that would
feel like maybe it's a certain feeling
of tension in your in your throat or
your mouth or something like uhoh uh oh
God there's going to be a speech block
coming these telltale signs of an
incoming speech block can help you
anticipate and avoid it so anticipate is
like you know uh expect something and
maybe make arrangements to deal with it
like expect something and deal with it
to anticipate it and avoid it using the
tricks and techniques you've learned
over the years so all right this
paragraph This little bit even on bad
days the telltale signs of an incoming
speech block can help you anticipate and
avoid it using the tricks and techniques
you've learned over the years so this
this person or we have learned how to
deal with these speech blocks and like
we know how to tell when they're coming
and anticipate them and find ways to
avoid them or get around them but that
doesn't always mean you'll get to say
what you want or need to so we've
learned ways of dealing with it but it
still doesn't mean that we can always
say what we want not every stutterer has
the privilege of being able to hide it
right some stutterers are able to hide
it but among those who do hide it some
are more overt meaning obvious and
others more covert meaning sort of like
a little bit harder to
notice right it seems that so people who
have stutters are often able to hide it
but some for some people it's they can
do it without anyone noticing other
people it's more obvious what is your
own approach to fluency okay so I try to
to speak my mind as much as possible
even if it means getting completely
stuck at times or I try my best to say
what I want to but blocks often cause me
to change my plans or I I try to hide my
stutter at all costs it's fluency or
nothing now I don't really have I don't
have a stutter right I don't I mean
other than just the normal amount of
sort of little Mis missteps that we make
when we speak or when we sometimes trip
over words
that's just normal but I don't really
have uh I don't have what could be
considered as a genuine speech
impediment I've just got the normal
levels of impediments that we all deal
with in our speaking so I don't think I
I have a stutter to hide um blocks I
don't really experience blocks so I
guess it's the first one I try to speak
my mind as much as possible even if it
means getting completely stuck at times
now as I said I don't have a stammer but
I do sometimes get stuck you know I'll
start I'll start a sentence and realize
that I can't really continue it and have
to sort of start again you know like
that's just totally normal in for native
speakers of English you know in your
first language it's just normal to sort
of Mis start a sentence and have to
start again even if you don't have a
stutter or stammer okay so it's got to
be the first one for
me so you feel it's important to avoid
censoring yourself
meaning you want to just be genuine it
can put you in an in awkward situations
when you try too hard to push against a
block so okay we've got to imagine we're
in the mind of someone who genuinely
does have a speech impediment then okay
so let's let's continue the story with
that in mind that we are someone who
lives with a speech impediment so it can
put you in awkward situations when you
try too hard to push against a
block so basically I guess it can be
embarrassing or something when you make
a really obvious effort to avoid a
speech block and block is the word
that's used by people who have speech
impediments to refer to those moments
when they can't get their words out or
when they find it impossible to say
something but you'd rather be true to
your thoughts even if it means being
awkward so I suppose people who have
speech impediments stammers stutters um
they have to sometimes they have if they
can't say what they want to say because
of a block they end up having to say
something different and I suppose that
can mean they end up having to say
something that's not necessarily true or
not really the genuine thing that they
wanted to say they end up saying
something else completely right so I
suppose I'm just opening the blind here
I suppose that um it's not just a case
of finding other words to say what you
want to say but sometimes just saying
something completely different even if
it's not you know the the the true uh
idea that you really
mean so um but in this case we've chosen
to just try to say what we want even if
even if we get blocked and it becomes
awkward awkward meaning embarrassing and
uncomfortable managing your sleep
schedule and stress levels can help you
have more good days but sometimes it's
just out of your control judging by the
fact that yesterday was full of blocks
and you still feel that familiar
tightness lingering in your throat kind
of lingering staying around when you
want it to go away but it stays
there um you still feel that familiar
tightness hanging around or lingering in
your throat you already have a feeling
that today is going to be rough meaning
it's going to be it's not going to be
smooth rough is the opp Opposite of
smooth a smooth day is you just pass
through the day without real trouble but
rough would be the opposite you come
across lots of difficulties and it's
kind of like a difficult day finding an
excuse to stay in bed just a little
longer you finish perusing your to-do
list perusing meaning looking through it
reading through it we've got the to-do
list here on the side of the screen 1 2
3 four five things first thing is to
call the store so we have to call a shop
for some reason get present looks like
we need to buy a present for someone
meet friends uh dry cleaners that means
I guess taking some clothes to be
cleaned or picking up some clothes that
have been cleaned are the dry
cleaners right the dry cleaners this
there's two ways you can clean your
clothes there's you know washing your
clothes with water and detergent in a
washing machine right that's the most
normal way you have your washing machine
at home
right you take the clothes out they're
wet and you dry them otherwise you go to
the dry cleaners which is more expensive
bit more specialized I don't entirely
know how they do it I think they use
chemicals or something but you take your
clothes to the dry cleaners um it's got
that special smell in the dry cleaners
which I quite like I don't know what it
is I suppose it's the process or
chemicals they use to clean your clothes
uh it's a bit mysterious the dry
cleaners how do they do it you just give
your clothes which are a bit dirty and
then it's like what are these mysterious
smells in this place this slightly
mysterious almost scientific kind of
place where they take your clothes and
then they do some special magic and
Abracadabra ping they give you back the
clothes a week later and they're all
perfectly clean and lovely and and they
have a lot of those dry cleaners have
those um uh those rails
where all the clothes are hanging down
in plastic bags in see-through plastic
bags and your ticket you know you've got
a ticket and it's got a number and the
the your clothes are hanging from a
certain numbered hook and they press a
button and
B all the clothes go moving around the
rails until your like your coat arrives
and you know it's just amazing I love
the dry cleaners uh so that's the dry
cleaner we need to go to the dry
cleaners for some reason and then job
interview oh dear there's a job
interview uh at the end of the day which
is going to be a stressful thing I mean
I don't know about you but when I have
something like that to do if it's
hanging over
me knowing that I've got this stressful
job interview later that day uh that's
going to make me feel uncomfortable and
stressed I mean I hope it's not a big
important job interview because we've
got lots of other things to
do um you remember what um what Natasha
said in that recent episode about job
interviews she said just make sure you
got nothing else to do um during the day
before your interview because you don't
need to have any
complications try and keep it simple uh
make sure you've got nothing else to do
except just be calm and relaxed and get
to the job interview on time but uh oh
we've got this to-do list before the job
job interview and of course if we're
feeling um if we're feeling blocked
already uh I'm sure that's going to mean
that the speech impediment might really
make it difficult remember the uh dream
that we had the nightmare at the
beginning of this where we were in an
office situation and we couldn't even
say our own name let's hope that doesn't
come true but I'm already starting to
feel a bit stressed I have to
say okay all right let's go so finding
an excuse to stay in be you look at your
to-do list right you have two big events
planned for today your friend's birthday
party and a big job interview you've
split the day up into smaller steps so
first call the store to reserve your
friend's birthday present fine then pick
up the present on your way to the
restaurant meet your friends for lunch
pick up your business attire at the dry
cleaners business attire that means
business clothing so in my case that
would be a
suit and get to your job interview how
do you feel about all these commitments
so do we feel excited do we feel nervous
or all of the
above well I too I'm already starting to
feel a bit stressed so I feel a bit
nervous I feel nervous about the job
interview but I'm also excited you know
because I'm going to meet my friends
it's going to be my friend's birthday
I'll be giving my friend a present and
also we're going to go to the dry
cleaners and as I've said already uh I
do finnally enough enjoy that the smell
the magic the funny clothing rail the
electric automatic clothing rail that
brings your jacket from all the way deep
in the shop all the way out to the front
and yeah so I'm i' I'm excited and
nervous so I'm going to choose all of
the above excited and nervous okay so
torn between excitement and apprehension
you're anticipating the ups and downs
that today will bring if you're torn
between something it means you're
between two things and you're torn so
torn like the way uh a piece of paper is
torn or a piece of fabric is torn right
if you pull on a a shirt for example if
one person's grabbed your shirt and
you've grabbed the other side and you
pull the shirt will tear the shirt will
be torn right same thing with paper if
you pull the two sides the paper
will paper will tear right I'll use that
paper later on Don't worry um so torn
between excitement and apprehension if
you're torn between two things it means
that you're stuck between them and you
can't quite decide which
one for example I don't know what would
it be um you know um it's like you go to
the shop because you want to buy some
chocolate digestive biscuits but you're
like oh do I get the milk chocolate
digestives or the dark chocolate
digestives oh God uh milk chocolate or
dark chocolate oh God I can't decide I
can't I'm torn between milk chocolate
and dark
chocolate clearly a major problem as you
can imagine so that's torn between two
things in this case we are torn between
excitement and apprehension if you're
apprehensive it means you're you're
nervous about something that's going to
happen you are um feeling uh a bit
unsure about something that's going to
happen you're kind of feeling nervous
and unsure before something so we're
torn between these two feelings feeling
excitement and uh feeling
apprehensive uh you're anticipating the
ups and downs that that today will bring
so we're looking forward to you know
looking at the day thinking oh it's
going to be a complicated day there'll
be great moments there'll be challenging
moments there'll be ups and
downs you you just have to focus on
getting through the day stay in control
of your speech and make a good
impression on the interviewer tonight
filled with an Indescribable mix of
feelings so this is a mix of feelings
that we can't
describe it's Indescribable filled with
an Indescribable mix of feelings you get
started on your morning routine and
choose your outfit for the casual
restaurant party you're headed to so we
need to choose our outfit we need to
choose what we're going to wear here are
the options so good old t-shirt and
jeans a classic look that is what I
would normally wear or a button-down
shirt that's a shirt where the collar
has little buttons so the collar's
button down uh a button down shirt and
dress pants classy and versatile dress
pants this is definitely American
English I'm assuming dress pants would
mean smart trousers right the kinds of
maybe chinos or the sort of trousers
that you might wear with a suit so
button- down shirt and dress pants so
this the sort of thing I would wear at
work I have to say um I don't wear a
full suit at work with a jacket and tie
but I wear a button-down shirt I do wear
sort of dark trousers maybe a pair of
chinos so this classy and versatile
versatile meaning that you can use it
for all sorts of different
situations um or do we go for a tank top
sleeveless vest and capri pants stylish
and funky what are capri
pants okay so having checked capri pants
are kind of like uh trousers normally
trousers that I guess girls wear that
are short so they they might stop at the
knee or maybe stop just below the knee
these are capri pants so it's not really
not really business
clothing I guess especially a tank top a
sleeveless vest stylish and funky okay
or a dress and stockings both elegant
and cute well I don't normally wear a
dress uh when I go out so that's not the
sort of thing I would choose but if I
was a
girl what would I
wear now I have to say like I would
probably go for the T-shirt and jeans
like whether I'm a girl or a boy
whatever just like for me now me I mean
I yeah as myself I would wear t-shirt
and jeans but considering the day the
fact
that we've got a job interview at the
end of the day I think it would be wise
to choose clothes that I could
potentially wear to the job interview if
things don't go according to plan right
considering I'm anticipating the
challenges of the day maybe something
will happen at the dry cleaners maybe
I'll run out of time I won't have time
to pick up the suit maybe the suit won't
be ready I think it would be wise to go
out in clothes that I could feasibly
wear at the job interview so I'm going
to go with the button-down shirt and the
and the
trousers Okay so you finish up your
preparations and get dressed the only
thing left to do before leaving is to
call the store to ensure your friend's
birthday present will be ready for
pickup so I have to call the shop or the
store in American English we say shop in
British English normally uh I've got to
call this the store the shop and just to
make sure that the present is ready and
that it will be there when I go to pick
it up she that's my friend requested a
new and popular card game and as they're
apparently flying off the shelves
meaning these this card game these games
are selling really really quickly right
people are buying them they're flying
off the shelves meaning they're they're
people are buying them and taking them
off the shelves they're selling really
well you better call the store as it
opens to make sure there's a copy set
aside for you so when the store opens
I'm going to call them just to make sure
that they've got a copy of the game set
aside they've they've kept it on one
side for
me unfortunately phone calls tend to
aggravate your
stutter make it
worse and make your blocks all the more
inconvenient due in part to the lack of
nonverbal
communication I sort of understand uh a
little bit I can empathize with that a
bit like when I have to make phone calls
in French I oh I dread that a little bit
like having to make a phone call in
French is quite frightening because it
because I can't rely on sort of
non-verbal communication which I
actually use quite a lot you know I use
it to help support my dodgy French you
know I can just uh gesture point at
things just generally use my body
language so apparently phone calls make
the stutter and blocks worse and the
story continues hopefully this one will
go smooth ly right let's see I'm going
to click on it you steal yourself for a
moment to steal yourself is kind of like
make yourself sort of prepare yourself
make yourself strong like right get
yourself ready
okay let's go you steal yourself for a
moment then steel spell s t l like the
metal so you can imagine making yourself
into the Man of Steel or the you know
the woman of Steel like I will be strong
now let's go you steal yourself for a
moment then dial the store's
number ring ring ring the phone rings
you can already feel your stutter coming
on a horrible diffused tension that's
impossible to
unwind making its way everywhere between
your pallet and your chest this is how
it feels when a stutter is coming on
when a stutter is arriving or starting
to happen a diffuse tension so General
sense of tension that's spread
around uh that's impossible to unwind
normally you unwind tension meaning you
kind of let the tension unravel to wind
something would be to twist something
round and round until it gets all
tight can I use an example I've got like
a little a little bag here that's used
in my podcasting room for uh a piece of
equipment right uh but if I if I twist
the bag up you can't see this audio
listeners but I'm twisting a little a
little pocket that you might put a
camera in or something you twist I'm
twisting it up and it gets all tight you
know as you twist something like a piece
of fabric round and round it gets all
tight and tense and then when you let it
go it
unwinds and becomes relaxed okay so
to you have this feeling of this tension
that's arriving and it's impossible to
unwind you can't you can't get rid of it
making its way meaning moving everywhere
between your pallet that's part of your
mouth the sort of roof of your mouth and
your chest so all the way through your
vocal tract is this feeling of tension
so on the on the telephone a deep
friendly voice greets you hi this is the
game Tower how can I help you now what
we want to say is hey I'm calling to
reserve a
game it's in green so apparently this is
fairly difficult to say so hey I'm
calling to reserve a game is what you
want to say let's click on
that hey I'm calling to reserve a
game so far so good the tightness is
lurking in the back of your throat
meaning it's sort of staying
there right in a slightly scary kind of
way the tightness is lurking in the back
of your throat like a kind of little
like a goblin would lurk in the back of
a cave so no one can see it the
tightness is lurking in the back of your
throat but it hasn't spiked up to block
you from speaking this time so it hasn't
like come out
and spiked you and stopped you sure what
game are you looking
for says the person you pull up the note
you've made for yourself so we've made a
note and what we want to say what we
want to say is it's called tricky
troubling trivia tricky troubling trivia
so this is some sort of quiz game but
that's quite you can imagine that would
be quite difficult to say can you say
that tricky troubling
trivia can you say
it it's called tricky troubling trivia
that's what you want to say mm let's try
now that's in yellow so that's more ult
to
say it's uh oh here we go it's
called trick
tricky
troubling
trivia an unpleasant block but it was
still manageable that could have been
worse yes we have a few I can set one
aside for you if you want
yes please perfect I'll just need to
write down your name and you can ask for
the game when you come in oh no your
name always seems to give you trouble
maybe because unlike most other words
there's just no way to replace or
circumvent it if you block right you
can't replace your name with another
word you can't circumvent it you can't
go round
it if you
block you take a breath and repeat Luke
in your head over and over so in your
head Luke Luke Luke Luke not luck not
look Luke you repeat it in your head
trying to soothe your tense jaw trying
to make it
relax you can faintly hear ambient
noises at the end of the line as the
Clark as the person working in the shop
waits for your answer so you're there in
your head
going luk Luke in your head and you can
hear sort of the sounds
of can just hear things going on in the
background so what you want to say is
it's
Luke that's what we want to say but this
is written in red so this is going to be
difficult
it's
sorry the sound is completely stuck
you try again with a different sentence
my name
is you keep trying to push through but
it's not helping uh sorry I think it's
cutting out says the person using
another trick you've learned you count
down from three before making another
attempt hoping to work up enough
momentum to get through the block once
and for all so here's another trick
counting down from three so going like 3
2 1 Luke right building up momentum if
you can build up the momentum boom boom
boom boom right we can get through the
block so three two hello says the person
one you open your mouth again click beep
beep beep beep he hung up meaning he put
the phone down or clicked stop on the
end on on his phone he ended the call he
hung up damn before we
could get our name out before we could
get the name out he hung
up okay I've achievement
unlocked get hung up on so I got hung up
on to to get hung up on is when you're
speaking to someone on the phone and
they hang up on
you as the taunting dial tone keeps
ringing in your ear you let slip your
expletive of choice so the dial tone is
still going beep beep beep
or the dial tone and you you you swear
you let slip your expletive of choice so
for me it will be
bollocks one of my favorite uh British
swear
words oh
bollocks what's your favorite expesive
I'm going to write bollocks because
because I mean that's technically a rude
word it's a swear word it's an expletive
that's an expletive is a swear word a
rude word it's not that bad but you
know here we go
bollocks reflexively dialing back so
just automatically dialing back you get
no answer they're probably busy dealing
with customers you may as well just head
straight to the store so you know why
not let's just go straight to the door
we may as well go there this as
good like may as well or might as well
do something means this is as good as
any other option so let's do it okay you
may as well just head to the store with
any luck they'll still have some copies
in stock let's hope so so ready to face
the world you head out to the nearest
bus stop let's go you get to the bus
stop just a little early and a few
people are waiting already already
waiting as you wait for the bus you
think to
yourself so we've got three options of
what to think to ourselves so option one
I wish I had a
car Option two I'm glad I get to skip
the morning traffic meaning I'm glad I
get you know on a on the bus you can
skip the traffic jams I'm glad I get to
skip the morning traffic or thirdly I
wonder what to make for supper meaning I
wonder what to make for
dinner um I wish I had a car glad I get
to skip the morning traffic I wonder
what to make for supper I think I'm
going to say I'm glad I get to skip the
morning traffic I'm I'm assuming that
there's a bus lane which means the bus
can just pass the the lines of traffic
so I'm glad I get to skip the morning
traffic okay as you wait for your as you
wait for the bus you think to yourself
I'm glad I get to skip the morning
traffic when the bus pulls up meaning
when the bus comes over to the side of
the road and stops when the bus pulls up
you climb on climb up the steps and
reach for your public transportation
card I've got my travel card here the
driver a stocky middle-aged woman stocky
means that she's kind of
like maybe a little bit uh
large but not tall so she's a bit short
and big right a stocky middle-aged woman
the bus driver greets every passenger
with a jolly good morning as they step
in front of the card scanner so as each
passenger steps in front of the card
scanner with their public transportation
card the driver says good morning in a
friendly way you know her well and she's
often been kind to you in the past even
lingering for a few moments meaning
staying we had lingering before right
staying not going away staying for a few
moments whenever she sees you run to
catch the bus so she's the she's nice
sometimes she waits she lingers there if
you're running to catch the bus she'll
stay she won't just drive away so she's
nice we and we know her when your turn
comes how do you greet her
so right so we can say good morning or
we can say hi but both of those are in
red which means that they for some
reason there's it's going to be
difficult to say these things so we say
good morning high or do we stay
silent we could we could play it safe
and stay silent and just get on the bus
without saying anything but it we don't
want to do that right we don't want to
do that because This Woman's this bus
driver's nice and she's friendly to
everyone and it would be rude it would
be rude to stay silent even though it's
going to be it's definitely going to be
difficult to say good morning or hi I
mean I am I am noticing parallels here
between this and learning another
language in the sense that sometimes
when you're dealing with situations in
another
language um sometimes you just if you
especially if you're feeling bad that
day if you've failed to do something in
your target language you know in your
other language Let for me it's French
for you it might be English if you
failed to do something in English that
day and you've had a bad experience like
you've you've got something wrong you
feel embarrassed sometimes you don't
really want to have to talk to anyone or
say anything but then again you don't
want to be rude to people so it's it's a
tricky thing sometimes you're torn
between just wanting to to just be quiet
for a while and uh wanting to be polite
so what should we do good morning or
hi let's try good morning I know it
could be awkward but let's let's hope
that this woman is going to be kind and
understanding if we can't say
it it's better than just being silent
and rude we've got to make an effort so
let's try and say good morning and hope
it's not going to be too
embarrassing you step up and scan your
card beep when the driver greets you you
smile and open your mouth but your reply
gets stuck in your throat she's already
looking away from you and she can't hear
The Quiet Sounds you're making as you
try to push the words out a few seconds
later as you're still struggling she
pulls on a lever to close the doors the
bus starts moving you realize you're
beginning to look foolish still standing
there trying to say good morning so you
start walking towards the
back it's a bit embarrassing you plop
down into an empty seat you kind of like
boom drop down into an empty
seat so you you try and you know you
smile try and say something luckily the
bus driver didn't seem to be too
bothered she was just busy dealing with
like the driving the bus and stuff but
you you did end up standing there for a
while kind of
going and then just walking to the back
of the bus or
something okay during the bus ride
tonight's job interview trots back into
your mind to trot this is what a horse
does so the the the inter the job
interview walks is like an animal
walking into your heart and
like here comes the job interview hello
it's trotted into your mind so it
basically comes into your mind you
reflect on the fluency techniques you've
had to teach yourself over the years you
kind of think about those techniques
that you've tried to work on for dealing
with fluency trying to make yourself
more fluent you reflect on those things
think about them again hoping that
they'll prove more helpful tonight than
they were in that phone call paraphrases
meaning saying things in different words
filler words adding little words to
perhaps add momentum or to just keep
talking even though you can't find the
word you're looking for rhythm and tone
changes so you lose yourself in thought
on the bus uhoh are we going to miss our
stop what's going to happen anyway we're
lost in thought thinking about how to
manage the uh the blocks and the issues
that we're dealing
with oh dear we've got some sort of
Daydream 8 years old therapist's office
you're seeing a therapist for the first
time at his request you tell him about
your day he doesn't listen but he hears
your every block and
stumble he looks up at your parents
you're 8 years old at this point I think
your child might have some issues with
confidence I hear a lot of anxiety
that's probably causing the stutter
he turns to you try to finish thinking
about what you want to say before you
start talking that might make things
easier you pipe up meaning you have
something to say but but but but
but but
but I
I
I he smiles try to relax slow down
take a deep breath you take a deep
breath it doesn't
help you want to tell him that you
already know what you want to say but
the session is over your parents take
you outside you ask them whether it's
your fault that you
stutter is it my fault that I stutter
they don't say yes but they don't say no
either you think to yourself it must be
my fault or
there must be something wrong with me or
you think they probably wish they had a
normal
kid that's sad isn't
it as an 8-year-old what would you
think it must be my fault there must be
something wrong with me they probably
wish they had a normal
kid God You' probably think all of those
things right you're going to think all
of those
things there must be something wrong
with me go with that that seems to be
the the most sort
of uh I guess the least harsh thing to
think but they're all they're not nice
things to think to yourself especially
as an
8-year-old all
right okay we we've snapped out of the
Daydream you snap out of your thoughts
as the bus approaches the mall that
houses the game store so that was that
was a really horrible memory
from your past where the therapist so
your parents clearly have taken you to a
therapist because they think something
is wrong with you psychologically
something wrong with your confidence
something to do with confidence issues
which is causing the stutter so they've
got it the wrong way around they think
that the stutter is caused by some other
psychological issue and you can imagine
that the parents are upset they're
frustrated that they want to fix this
problem and so the they take you to a
therapist but the therapist doesn't
understand the issue and the therapist
is trying to trying to get to the bottom
of the psychological causes for the
stutter but it's the other way around
the stutter is just caused by just
Connections in the brain that aren't
wired
normally and if a child is is suffering
with confidence issues it's because of
the stutter it's not the other way
around
and you can imagine how that kind of
misdiagnosis is going to cause a lot of
psychological problems right it's going
to exacerbate the situation where the
child is going to feel guilty they're
going to feel like it's their fault
they're going to feel
ashamed they're going to feel that their
parents um see them as a problem they're
going to think their
parents don't want
them so what a horrible little memory
Daydream that just came into our mind
anyway you snap out of your thoughts as
the bus approaches the mall the shopping
center that houses the game store this
is where the game store is you find your
way to the shop and are greeted by
shelves full of colorful board games as
you walk up to the counter you think
back on your phone conversation and feel
a rush
of embarrassment or shame or anger
thinking about the phone conversation
where you Tred to reserve the game and
you couldn't say you couldn't say your
name and the person hung up the
phone so how do you feel you feel
embarrassed do you feel ashamed or do
you feel angry embarrassment shame or
anger it's going to be all three of them
again isn't
it embarrassment shame or
anger depends on the day I can imagine
feeling any of those
things embarrassment shame anger I'm
going to feel anger today it's just so
annoying I just feel so annoyed that you
I can't do something as simple as
reserving a game for my friend just
saying my name just just it would
be um infuriating wouldn't it so anger
is how I feel the employee at the
register welcomes you with a smile and
you initiate the
conversation hi do you have um tricky
troubling trivia
we actually said it h uh I think we
already sold out actually
bollocks you let her know you try to I
don't think you should say bollocks in
front of someone like that I have to say
that's more the thing I would say on my
own but I would probably say damn or I
might
say what would I say that's not a rude
word
damn oh damn I would say you let her
know you tried to call earlier to
reserve a
copy I tried to call earlier her
colleague walks over meaning her
colleague
comes um comes over comes walks over
means come Walks from one place close to
where you are her colleague walks over
as she looks through the pile of
reserved games oh were you the one who
called about tricky troubling trivia I
put it aside for you she pulls the game
out right as he finishes his sentence
okay you thank the both of them relieved
to have secured the last copy after all
oh that's a relief isn't it so the the
person actually did put it
aside um he chuckled lightly I wasn't
sure if you'd come the call died right
at the worst time I'm glad it all worked
out so this person assumed that there
was a problem on the
line uh but he held the game anyway nice
so what are we going to do just play
along and pretend your signal was bad so
just kind of play pretend like yeah yeah
the phone yeah just play along and let
him know or or let him think that it was
a problem with the phone connection or
do we let him know what really
happened I think in this case because we
just it's just a transaction we just
want the game we just need to go I don't
think it's necessary to tell him
actually you know what the reason why uh
uh the the reason there was a problem is
because I have a speech impediment and
uh sometimes it's really really
difficult for me to say my own name I
know it's crazy isn't it it's so
annoying but thanks so much for putting
it to one side that seems to be
unnecessarily complicated I think we
just need to go yeah yeah yeah the phone
something problem with the phone thanks
for the game have a nice day um I think
we'd probably just go with the first one
seems to be the easier option let's do
that you laugh along yeah and curse your
terrible signal as you make your
purchase you're like yeah yeah God my my
phone signal is
terrible thanks a lot when you turn
towards the exit you
feel how do you feel you feel relieved
you feel disappointed or do you feel
conflicted now you might feel relieved
in the sense that okay got the game
everything's fine but you might feel a
bit disappointed too cuz you might feel
like oh well it's a pity to to just it's
a Pity that he doesn't know the
truth and it's like you also think it's
a Pity that I'm too embarrassed or maybe
it's too inconvenient for me to actually
tell him what really
happened would you feel conflicted
conflicted again means like you're torn
there's a conflict between two things
you're torn between maybe feeling
relieved and a bit disappointed I I
would feel conflicted I'd feel relieved
I'm like thank God I got the game fine
let's carry on with the day but there
would be that feeling Goring away at you
of like yeah but it would be good if
people understood what I was really
going through rather than just thinking
it was a problem with the telephone I
don't like to live like that like with
you know I don't like to I want people
to know the truth for goodness sake so
you'd feel conflicted I
reckon anyway game in hand you leave the
mall and head towards the restaurant
where you're meeting your friends for
lunch
which is conveniently within walking
distance you're already drooling at the
thought of the meal awaiting you so
you're not literally drooling I suppose
but to drool is when like Homer Simpson
from the simpsom
simpsom Homer Simpson from The Simpsons
when uh he thinks of pizza when someone
says Pizza he
goes pizza and a bit of drool comes out
the side of his mouth a a
pizza and he starts drooling so drooling
is the drool is like saliva which would
come out of your mouth because your your
mouth is watering because you're so
hungry ah so you're already drooling at
the thought of the meal awaiting you not
literally I suppose but you're basically
like oh yes lovely food coming soon you
looked up the menu earlier so we we
checked on the internet we checked the
menu earlier and we're delighted to note
that they have your favorite food so you
looked at the menu ah awesome they've
got my favorite food what is our
favorite food we're going to find out
what's your favorite food okay what is
my favorite food pizza I'm just going to
go with
pizza
mhm cuz I'm feeling like Homer Simpson
today
a
pizza pizza yes coincidentally they also
serve your least favorite food oh my God
what's my least favorite food I like
most things I like most things but I
tell you what I don't like is that
French sausage which is called oh what's
it called oh God what's it called andet
andet have you heard of that French
people are like oh God yes some French
people are like yes I love it what's
wrong with
andet um andet is a sausage which is
made
from is it like the the the
intestines I know sausages are often
made from that part but it's like the
lower intestine or something all right
hold on andriette according to
Wikipedia no it it kind of it looks like
it could be quite good but for me no no
andet is a French coarse grained sausage
made from the intestine that's the parts
of the stomach of pork pepper wine
onions and seasonings onet are generally
made from the large intestine
um true onettes are rarely seen outside
France and have a strong distinctive
odor coming from the colon oh dear the
colon colon is the is part of the lower
intestine isn't
it oh basically it's disgusting it's
just like a disgusting part of the body
that I feel like we shouldn't really be
eating some of you out there going we
shouldn't be eating animals bodies
anyway but I mean yeah maybe but um
certainly the colon like just leave it
alone guys just leave
it you know anyway the onet it stinks
and it's disgusting sorry French people
I love a lot of the other food but just
leave the colon alone
please you're at the table in the
restaurant someone next to you is
ordered an onette and you're like oh God
there's different grades of them as well
they come in different different grades
different layers of of strength oh dear
they also serve my least favorite food
which is definitely
onet
yuck um all right where were we here
okay all
right they also serve my least favorite
food onet You' you'd have to be pretty
desperate to ever eat that as the
building comes into view you feel
anticipation bubbling up ooh
anticipation oh this is going to be
exciting you know anticipation again
thinking about what's going to happen
thinking about what's coming it's
bubbling up blah blah blah blah blah
blah you love spending time with your
friends but talking can still feel
daunting like a big difficult
challenge it can feel daunting even
around them your frequent blocks
certainly don't go unnoticed meaning
your friends still notice your blocks
and anyone close to you is probably used
to them but you're not sure anyone
understands your condition as anything
more than a strange Quirk so like
they're your friends they they don't
mind really they're used to it but you
still feel that people don't really
understand your condition as more than a
strange Quirk like a strange just like a
a quirky aspect of your personality like
you're just a bit kind of like oh kind
of like oh Luke's just sort of bit bit
different isn't he you know he's just
kind of quirky you know he's got like
has the problem with his speech but it's
just like a thing oh this something's
just a bit strange about
him early attempts to discuss it in your
Social Circles were met with
well-intentioned but misguided I stutter
toos at
best so when we've tried to discuss it
with our friends
these attempts to discuss it were met
with well-intentioned
comments but misguided comments so uh
your your attempts were met with
something means that when you try to do
something the uh the uh like consequence
or response that you
got was that people made comments that
were well intentioned they had good
intentions they wanted to be nice but
they were misguided so they they they
they didn't know what they were talking
about so when we've tried to talk it
about it before with our friends they've
just replied with um nice things
but things that show that they didn't
understand what they were talking about
well-intentioned but misguided comments
like I stutter
too and complete disinterest at
worst so the best that they said was
like oh yeah I stutter as well and the
worst was that they just didn't seem to
care which is a bit of a Pity it's been
years now and friends have come and gone
but you haven't had the heart to bring
up the topic with any group ever since a
that's sad so we've discussed it before
with friends but they didn't really
understand and so as a result we've
never really talked about it with other
friends
since on that thought you get to your
destination and you venture inside so
you we go
inside Luke you look around and quick
spot your friends enthusiastically
waving at you from a large Booth Booth
is like a closed off seating area you're
seemingly the last to arrive it's we
seem to be the last to arrive we are
seemingly the last A Chorus of hay and
highs erupts as you take a
seat right they these lots of people
saying hi hey hey hey as you set take a
seat noticing the presents already
strewn about the table the presents are
already spread around the table in a
sort of haphazard way as
if Clementine Clementine has already
opened the presents and they are
scattered around the table they're
strewn around the table oh no she hasn't
she hasn't opened them yet anyway the
presents are already on the table in
different places they are strewn about
the table you pull out your own and hand
it to the birthday girl happy birthday
Clementine this is what we want to say
it's written in green so it might be a
little bit difficult to say this
what we say it she beams with happiness
boom like light coming out of a torch or
something she beams with happiness and
thanks you effusively so she's like
really enthusiastically uh thanks you oh
I can't wait to try it with you guys so
she can't wait to play the game the
waitress wastes no time taking orders
and before you know it she's already
almost up to your seat so she's she's
the waitress is taking the orders and
she's nearly uh take she's nearly ready
to take our order so what it what'll it
be for you what'll it be for you she
says what will it be for you what yeah
feeling a familiar tension swirling in
your throat you turn to face her open
your mouth and oh
bollocks so for some reason pizza is in
red andette is in green oh God I can't
believe that onet is easier to say than
pizza but you know like it's a bit
mysterious isn't it having a stammer or
a
stutter but pizza is in red is the most
difficult andet is in green and then
we've got a middle option which is same
as
her right same as her so that's whatever
the other person had we're going to have
the same as her or we've got another
option which is blue which I suppose is
easier to do well it doesn't involve
speaking and that's just point at Pizza
point out pizza on the menu so you can
either we can either fail to say pizza
or we'll we'll probably succeed in
saying andriette I'm surprised it's
available in this American restaurant
but still uh or we can say same as her
and just hope that she didn't order an
ouet or we can point out pizza on a
menu there's no way I'm ordering onet
there's just no way in hell I'm going to
order that at this party with friends
around they're all going to smell it
they'll think it's disgusting out of the
question I'm not having Andre yet all
right I could try and say pizza but it's
going to be embarrassing but I want a
pizza okay I'm going to point to hell
with it I'm pointing at Pizza on the
menu let's just let's just do that I
just want my food please okay I'm going
to point at Pizza this might be a bit
embarrassing maybe she's going to think
that I'm I can't speak or something who
knows let's just do it
you look around frantically hoping you
can point to the item on a menu but
they've all been collected already so
there's no there are no menues around oh
God all right so what we're going to do
try and say pizza let's just try and say
pizza come on let's do it come on please
be
forgiving I'd I'd um i' i' I'd I'd like
the I'd like the
you struggle for what feels like an
eternity under the weight of the
waitress's Gaze so the waitress is
staring at
you you can feel it heavy on you the
weight of the waitress's Gaze meaning
her staring at you you struggle for ages
finally you manage to make her
understand what you want and she
leaves you try to distract yourself from
your hunger by tuning into the
discussion that started up as you were
ordering so while I was ordering people
are talking about something everyone is
sharing some of their best jokes and
laughing
along now okay jokes now is your chance
to share one of your own what do you
contribute now telling
jokes is difficult don't you think it is
we've all been there we've all tried to
tell a joke and got it wrong and if you
even if you stumble over the the setup
or the punchline it will often ruin the
joke you know even if it's just a simple
joke why was six afraid of seven because
789 right you get that one right don't
you why was Six why was the number six
afraid of the number seven because 7 89
Yum Yum
Yum
okay that's a simple one but if you get
it wrong why was
six afraid of
seven you know timing is so important
why was six afraid of seven and everyone
goes I don't know why was six afraid of
seven
because
nine it just it's going to ruin the joke
and everyone's going to go
uh has anyone else got any jokes so
anyway we've got we've got three jokes
that we can tell here
but they're all written in red which
means they're all going to be difficult
to say but we want to be able to sell
tell our joke right okay here are three
jokes for you listeners first of all I'm
going to tell you the jokes and I'll
probably have to explain them I've never
seen these jokes before in my life I've
no idea if they're any good and then
we'll decide which joke we're going to
try and say or we're going to choose to
stay silent which is again sad because
when people are gathering around telling
jokes it's fun to contribute and
I like to tell jokes so I would like I
would I want to be part of this so all
right here are the three jokes the first
one what is the most surprised
soup what soup is the most surprised
soup yes soup that you
eat what is the most surprised soup the
answer
gaspacho
gaspacho gas
gaspa all right so
gasp is go that's to
gasp like when you're very
surprised okay I don't know what's just
happened like
um you ordered the fish and the fish
arrives on your table and you're about
to uh try and eat it and the fish comes
alive and jumps off the table you'd be
very surprised wouldn't you you'd gasp
so any way what's the most surprised
soup gaspacho cuz G gaspacho soup is a
type of soup right
gaso okay it's not the best joke ever
second joke is why did the plant get a
degree why did the plant get a degree
that's a University
degree why did the plant like plant like
a like a flower or a plant that grows
out of the ground right why did the
plant get a degree because it wanted a
career in stem
Fields
mhm stem Fields all right I'm not
entirely sure I get the joke what are
stem Fields I I know we got stem cells
but what are stem Fields maybe this is
like stem okay stem is an acronym for
science technology engineering and math
or maths in British English so stem is
it relates to um certain academic areas
science technology engineering and maths
these are stem Fields so why did the
andm and you get the
joke why did the plant get a degree
because it wanted a career in stem
Fields science technology uh engineering
or maths um stem though stem the the
central part of a plant is the stem of
the plant so the stem is the main thing
in the middle of the plant and the the
branches or the leaves come out from the
stem so that's the stem it's the main
body of a
plant okay it's just a play on words it
wanted a career in stem Fields stem
plant plant stem okay oh dear how did
Pavlov keep his hair
soft Pavlov you know Pavlov he's the guy
famous for um was it behavioral
conditioning right uh Pavlov's dog
you know that experiment have you heard
about that where
um basically Pavlov's dog so EV Pavlo
Pavlov let's say came up with a theory
of conditioning which is that certain
behavior that we have um happens uh as a
result of certain stimuli so the I think
the experiment went like this Pavlov had
a dog every time he fed the dog food he
would ring a bell so he give the dog
food Bing ding ding ring the
bell okay so and when when he gave the
the the dog food the the dog would drool
remember that it would
salivate its mouth would water so it
give food to the dog the the dog would
drool and he would ring the bell right
every single time and
eventually through conditioning through
the association of the Bell ringing and
the
food being there he would eventually be
able to just ring the bell and the dog
would
drool so he conditioned he learned or
proved maybe that uh we our Behavior can
be conditioned it can be uh defined or
created by certain
stimuli okay that's called conditioning
he said setting up the joke so how did
Pavlov keep his hair soft he conditioned
it okay cuz conditioner is something you
put on your hair to keep it soft you
often have shampoo and a conditioner
shampoo cleans the hair conditioner
conditions your hair and makes it soft
right shampoo and conditioner how did
Pavlov keep his hair soft he conditioned
it okay that's the best of the three
jokes but it's going to be tough it's
going to be really hard to say this how
did Pavlov keep his hair soft he
conditioned
it I hope that my friends have a basic
understanding of
psychological uh testing
and psychology um anyway we're going to
go for that right you pipe up with your
own joke and their amused looks turn to
you so you kind of say how how did and
everyone turns to you ready for your
joke how
did how did P
Pavlov get his
hair
so
soft
he he uh bollocks that totally ruined
your joke you're trying to twist the
phrasing a bit looking for a way to get
past this horribly timed block but Jamie
suddenly interjects oh I've got one so
three chess pieces walk into a porn shop
oh dear so how do we feel what we going
to say that this really sucks or do we
say well you know what maybe it's for
the
best if something if you say maybe it's
for the best maybe that means that what
happened is ultimately the best the best
thing so maybe this maybe this was the
best thing that could have happened uh
that that Jamie interjects and starts
telling a joke and distracts
everyone probably is maybe for the it's
probably for the best isn't it because
if they wouldn't have laughed at the
joke anyway so it's maybe it's for the
best but it's true that really sucks but
maybe it's for the best
ultimately the achievement unlocked
satisfied eat a delicious meal yeah okay
so we' we we were there to eat food and
have fun with our friends never mind if
the joke didn't
work the rest of the meal goes by fairly
uneventfully um you managed to sprinkle
some comments here and there but for the
most part everyone is too busy eating to
talk much you happily Savor your food
meaning enjoy it m yummy yum yum lovely
pizza and still feel a bit peckish after
finishing it peckish means still peckish
is a bit hungry oh I'm a bit peckish
fancy bit of food still peckish still
peckish after finishing the pizza
Clementine offers to buy you dessert a
grateful smile Finds Its way to your
lips as you process her offer so she
says hey do you want me to buy you
dessert and you smile and then you think
about H what would I like um you're
really in the mood for something
sweet when the waitress makes her when
the when the waitress makes her rounds
when she comes round what do you order
now all of these things are written in
yellow so they're all going to be quite
difficult to say so ice cream cake fruit
salad or nothing and nothing is easy to
say ice cream cake or fruit salad ice
cream please come on I want ice cream
I'm going to try and Order ice cream
even though it's going to be difficult
you likely stut your way through your
order ice ice
cream soon everyone is chitchatting
while enjoying drinks and dessert and
Clementine decides to Christen your
present meaning she decides to basically
to
uh um she decides to Christen your
present I suppose this means she to open
it to start
it
right despite its name it seems to be a
fairly straight forward trivia game she
pulls out a card okay the category is
movies you focus intently as you listen
to the clue she reads aloud because we
like movies we're pretty good at movie
trivia it hits you almost immediately
she's describing your favorite movie oh
God what's my favorite
movie it's impossible to decide what my
favorite movie is a few years ago I
would have said Star Wars but n I've
kind of grown out of it I think what is
my favorite movie at the
moment I'm going to say spinal
tap no Three
Amigos Three Amigos is my favorite film
at the
moment Steve Martin Chevy Chase Martin
Short fantastic comedy film you know
it's the one with the the speech about
uh your own personal El Guapo for us El
Guapo happens to be a big scary man who
wants to kill us you know that that that
bit mhm Three
Amigos okay she's describing your
favorite movie the point is yours if you
manage to say the answer out loud
unfortunately you feel a heavy block
coming on try to spit out the title
anyway is my first option or stall for
Time by pretending you forgot the title
so what do we do do we just try and say
Three Amigos or do we say I've got it
I've got it h wait a minute wait a
minute um um um I've got it you know you
need to do something like that like okay
okay okay while you stall for time while
you try and persuade your mouth to say
Three
Amigos um so saying the title quickly is
really difficult stalling for time is
easier let's try that oh oh I I think I
know what it is wait it's it's on the
tip of my tongue it starts with a
number someone else excitedly shouts
Amigos and gets the point yeah that's
what I was going to say
too you feel a little
dejected you know that movie by heart
and it feels a little wrong to pretend
that you forgot about it like you want
your friends to know that you got that
one after a few more rounds which you
didn't know the answers to anyway the
game is put away and everyone slowly
prepares to leave among the last minute
chatter your friends wish you good luck
with your
interview okay so they wish us good luck
you all part ways mean you will go
different ways leave shortly afterwards
and it doesn't take long for you to get
to the dry cleaners a gentleman with
graying hair greets you warmly as you
walk in hi I'm here to pick up an item
you hand him your ticket all right he
operates the conveyor yes I knew it
b as it comes around and your garment
your item of clothing comes into view
nice clothes going anywhere fancy so we
got three options option one I have a
big job interview tonight or two n these
are just my pajamas or yeah you could
say that so yeah you could say that
means yes that's right going anywhere
fancy yeah you could say that meaning
yes I am going somewhere fancy
so I have a big job interview tonight or
no these are just my pajamas or yeah you
could say
that so the guy seems to be fairly
friendly he's nice I think I'm going to
try and be funny and I'm going to say
nah these are just my
pajamas it's obviously a business suit
that's funny I'm going to say that
they're all green by the way these
things so they all should be fairly
difficult but
doable now these are just my my
pajamas unfortunately a car outside
honks right as you're
talking uh sorry what did you say h now
you've completely lost your
momentum so now suddenly it's much more
difficult to say those things so they're
all yellow now I have a big job
interview tonight now these are just my
pajamas yeah you could say that suddenly
there's a block God knows why but there
it is is or we got a fourth option which
is just H never
mind I want to say the joke but it's the
the moment has passed the moment has
definitely passed I'm just going to say
never mind the moments past it's no good
if like hey uh nice clothes doing
something special no these are just my
pajamas timing is everything right if
it's like nice clothes would were going
somewhere special no no beep huh what
sorry is that what were we saying sorry
oh no these are just my pajamas uh oh oh
all right you know timing is everything
um so I'm just going to say n never mind
just just give me the suit and let me
get out of here never mind he thanks you
energetically this is American customer
service you wouldn't get that in
France I don't think Paris anyway at
least um he thanks you energetically
well thank you so much have you have a
great day now now it's that kind of
American thing well uh you know well
thank you so much and you have you just
have yourself a lovely day now he thanks
you
energetically thank you so much after
handing you your clothes there you go
you're all set but you feel some
lingering awkwardness as you leave the
buildings you just feel like that's
vaguely
unsatisfying just awkward anyway on your
way home you decide to make a stop at a
cafe you're looking for to picking up a
nice drink to soothe your nerves what do
you plan on ordering a coffee a tea hot
chocolate or a smoothie well of course
I'm going to have tea especially in the
afternoon so your heart set on tea you
set foot inside the busy coffee shop
after a short wait in the queue you
approach the
Barista hello what can I get you you
quickly and smoothly place your order
tea please thank you you can pick it up
over there when it's ready what's your
name oh God this again again so what are
we going to do use your name use a
friend's name or use a fake name of
course your name Luke is the most
difficult one to say a friend's name
slightly easier a fake name even easier
than
that come on let's try and do it let's
try and say Luke I'm going to have to
say it later at the job interview might
as well get used to it I could say a
friend's name or a fake name but it just
seems like
I don't know seems somehow unsatisfying
right anyway use your
name oh God I knew this would happen why
did I choose that to do this the Barista
is staring at you
quizzically it's um it's
uh people are starting to line up behind
you my name is
Luke moments later you pick up your cup
adorned with giant block letters
spelling l u k e and head home you spend
the remainder of your time practicing
and preparing for your interview and
make sure to leave extra
early good on the way there you find
yourself drifting off into another
memory okay here we go it's going to be
another sad
memory here we are then
okay 12 years old 12 right 12 years old
math class or Math's
class it's still early in the school
year and you're listening to the new
math teacher recite answers as your eyes
scan your exercise book your brow
furrows in Surprise as you realize that
one of your answers is different from
the one he gave you raise your hand and
he gestures for you to speak uh remind
me what your name is it's uh um forget
your name your classmates
[Laughter]
laugh you're still struggling to push
out the letter
L when he changes the subject with a
wave of the hand what was your
question for the so um the solution to
to to uh number to
number five would it be okay to use a
a uh
a a percent a a
percent a
percentage in instead of
a
Frack
action he just looks at you for a moment
maybe he didn't understand you he looks
at the rest of the
class
anyway pretending like you never spoke
at all he moves on to the next exercise
and resumes his
explanations wow so how do you feel I
feel dejected she's like just just feel
really bad like really disappointed and
kind of like you've been thrown down on
the ground I feel dejecting speaking up
was a mistake I feel angry I want my
voice to be heard I feel confused what
am I supposed to do now
well of course you'd feel all three of
those things but I'd certainly feel
angry what
a what a dick right the teacher
anyway really I would feel angry about
that I'm going to be
angry angry again your thoughts are all
over the place as you walk towards the
building's entrance for the job
interview for the second time today
events from ages ago have wormed their
way into your
mind like like worms coming in thinking
back on your child and teenage selves
you suddenly feel a desire to make them
proud of who they've
become right thinking back on these
moments when you were eight when you
were 12 when you were dealing with these
situations that were not your fault
these these difficult situations that
you lived through you look back on them
now as a grownup a young adult I
suppose and you look back and you think
I want to make that kid proud of who who
we've become who I've
become which is a good positive thing to
think isn't it as you walk through the
door flashes of the conversations you've
had throughout the day flutter inside
your head so little memories of the
conversations you've had during the day
kind of come back back to you today was
a really was a mixed bag a mixed bag
some good some bad right it was a mixed
bag you try to take it in stride meaning
try to deal with those difficult things
and just carry on in a positive way to
take them in your stride if you take
something in your stride it means that
something bad happens but you don't let
it stop you continuing you you maintain
your positivity and your drive and your
motivation it's like okay something bad
happened but carry on you take it in
your stride but you end you try to take
it in stride or take it in your stride
but you end up silencing yourself more
than you'd like
to does that make sense silencing
yourself meaning kind of like I guess
talking to yourself as as a way of or
like those those unconfident thoughts
come in that kind of suppress yourself
making you shy making you
retire making you choose to be silent
you try to shake off all
negativity just just get it off get the
negativity off you try and shake it off
as you approach the office there's no
time for introspection anymore so we've
got to focus on the job at hand no time
to let these intrusive thoughts from the
Past come in this is it okay let's start
the
interview here we go so the interview is
conducted by a man who somehow seems
equal parts approachable and severe so
he's equally approachable so friendly
and easy to talk to you can approach him
quite easily but also severe like he's
also kind of seems to be a bit strict
which is often the case in job
interviews they can often be hi it's
very nice to talk to you um thank you
for coming for the interview today so
they they they seem approachable but
also there's this sense that he seem a
bit strict as
well you shake his hand sit down and
ready yourself for what's to
come you know you're probably going to
stutter anyway and you've been making an
effort to be more open about it lately
you decide to disclose your condition
before he starts asking his questions
okay so we're going to tell him at the
beginning look just to let you know I do
have a stutter I have a stammer which
sometimes affects the way that I speak
so if I sometimes pause it's because of
the stammer I've had it my whole
life that's what you say his reaction is
polite but difficult to read so he says
okay thank you for telling me so you
it's polite but it's difficult to read
you don't know what he really feels and
you hope you made the right
choice suddenly you're launched into the
interview proper he first asks you about
your
skills I have a particular set of skills
you want to say no you feel that you're
capable of speaking
fluently right now but unfortunately not
with the specific sentences you had in
mind which are full of the most
important information you want to convey
so feel not too bad but those specific
sentences just no it's not
happening so what are we going to do
focus on giving the best possible answer
or focus on being
fluent focus on giving the best possible
answer is more difficult focus on being
fluent is
easier I think we're going to have to
focus on being fluent here just let the
wheels turn let's keep the momentum
going and maybe we'll manage to find our
way to the same point we wanted to make
but in other words I think if I was in
this situation if I was trying to do
something in French I would have
probably try that instead of Smashing my
head against a brick wall which is never
a good idea is it
Anyway so you focus on being fluent you
fluently talk about your skills managing
to avoid every potential Block in doing
so you also manage to avoid any mention
of your most interesting
abilities without skipping a beat so
without pausing he asks you about your
goals maybe it's all the tension
building up or maybe it's just a stroke
of bad luck but you find that all you're
carefully crafted and eloquent sentences
have abandoned you despite many rounds
of perfectly fluent practice at home so
all these sentences that you prepared to
say in advance they they've all gone so
he's asking about your goals what are
your goals what do you want to
achieve all right so what do we do focus
on giving the best possible answer which
is in
red or focus on being fluent this is
really tough because you obviously need
to sell yourself and you need to tell
him about your your best skills you need
to be able to uh give him your your
unique selling
points right you can't just keep
speaking fluently but not actually
saying anything particularly interesting
or positive about yourself but it's in
red now I think we're going to have to
try I mean he seemed to understand about
the stammer when I said it
before I'm going to try
here we go I
mean sooner or later he's going to
discover my stammer it's going to come
up at some point so let's just try might
as well do it now okay you
hit
several
painful
blocks but eventually managed to outline
the goals which are most aligned with
the companies as the interview draws to
a close he asks you about your past
experiences in the workplace aha you
figured this question was coming and
prepared for it well this is your time
to
shine you take a second to put your
thoughts in order so you just take a
second okay what we're going to say as
you focus on the beginning of your first
sentence you feel your throat constrict
harder get tighter harder than ever oh
bollocks you're not going to make
it maybe you can still try to be fluent
maybe it'll be
okay what are we going to do focus on
giving the best possible answer or focus
on being fluent but to be honest they're
both in
red whatever we say now is going to be
difficult got to just focus on giving
the best possible answer it's the only
thing we can do
now all you can manage is small all you
can manage is small throaty sounds as
you try to get over the biggest block of
the day you try to rephrase things in
your head desperately looking for a way
to say what you need to
say finally you form a complete word
then another then a few
slowly you struggle for what feels like
hours as the interviewer stares
expressionless expressionlessly
only looking away to take notes but
little by little you piece together a
cohesive response meaning a response
that sort of sticks
together and share several great
learning experiences you've had in other
workplaces the interview concludes
shortly after his smile as
he his smile as he sees you out of the
room is friendly yet distant so as he
sort of says okay thank you for coming
and shows you the exit he's his his
smile is friendly but distant and you're
left feeling very uncertain about your
performance you feel a pit in your
stomach like a hole in your stomach the
whole way
home all the way home but take some
comfort in knowing that you did
everything you
could you go to bed that night wondering
if you've let your inner child down
there's a phrasal verb to let let
someone down to disappoint them in this
case it's your inner child cuz remember
you wanted to show your past self that
they can be proud of you now you want to
make someone proud so you want to
succeed but if you fail you're going to
let that person down that person is
going to be they'll be disappointed
you'll let them
down you know like if you want to
normally it's your parents right
normally you want to prove to your
parents that you're capable of doing
something so you do your best but then
you know you fail and your parents are
like we're we're very disappointed oh no
I let them down I let my parents down
we' you've let us down again you know in
this case we go to bed wondering if we
have let our inner child down if we if
we've let down the child version of
ourselves if they're going to be
disappointed in
us can you really hope to achieve your
goals really can you really hope to
achieve your goals even with this speech
impediment is there any point in
trying this is the question we're
wondering
about here's another memory 16 years old
your best friend's
house slumped into Jaime's parents comfy
couch so meaning sitting sort of lying
back sitting comfortably slumped into
Jaime's parents comfy couch in a living
room packed with friends and
acquaintance is you're watching a
popular comedy film you've never seen
before we got an attorney in the family
great who my cousin Vinnie so they're
watching the film my cousin Vinnie
really good
film
um an hour passes and you're all
enjoying yourselves the wrongly accused
protagonists are now in court so my
cousin Vinnie is about a court case like
a legal case in a
courtroom it's funny is charming is
great really good film an hour passes
and you're all enjoying yourselves the
wrongly accused protagonists are now in
court and being represented by a new
defense attorney after firing the
titular Vinnie so basically a lawyer is
defending them in the courtroom the new
attorney the new lawyer stands to give
his opening statement ladies and
gentlemen of
the
of of the
jury come on on on on you instinctively
tense and
cringe as you hear his broken speech the
pauses The rhythms the gestures to help
him push words out you know exactly how
he feels you've never seen someone who
talks like you on TV before and you're
transfixed for a moment as the initial
shock begins to fade your attention
shifts away from the screen and you
register your friends reactions for the
first time they are laughing
hysterically it Dawns on you meaning you
realize
oh you it Dawns on you to them there
isn't an ounce of drama in the scene
only
humor you endure or survive the rest of
this painfully awkward moment then enjoy
the remainder of the movie afterwards as
conversations emerge about what you just
watched you try to come to terms with
your conflicted
feelings it's a good day for you fluency
wise which makes you feel emboldened it
makes you feel
courageous confident you're not
comfortable opening up too much around
everyone present but you test the waters
sort of like test the situation dip your
toe in the water you know it's an idiom
test the waters you test the waters by
stating you felt bad for the defense
attorney you're like I felt kind of bad
for that defense
attorney uh he he just let his nerves
get the best of
him and someone said I can understand
stuttering when you're nervous but he
was like spazzing
out right that's that's pretty uh sort
of Inc incorrect thing to say spazzing
out is like he was having spasms
as a result of maybe sort of uh some
sort of mental
disorder right I mean why would you
become a lawyer if you can't speak said
someone you change the subject and don't
dare to bring it up again so you just
like change the subject and you don't
you don't
have you never risk talking about it
again you don't have the courage you
don't dare to bring it up again
so how do you feel after this day on
that day I vowed I promised to show the
world that I can attain almost any
career I
want or on that day I started telling
myself that maybe I didn't belong in any
position where I'd have to
speak H what did we say to ourselves on
that day did we go I will show them I'll
show that I can do any career I want to
do even though I've got this
stammer I'll show them or did we say you
know what it's not my place I'm it's not
for me to be any in any position where
I'll have to speak I'll choose something
else where I don't have to speak that
whole world it's just not available for
me it's not going to happen so I'll just
do something maybe where I can just type
or I don't know something
else now I want to say the first one I
want to say I'll show him I can do
anything I want but
realistically as a
16-year-old I don't know I don't know I
think I me myself as a 16-year-old I
think I would probably be more likely to
choose the second option which is more
like a case of so I've got this speech
impediment I'm just going to choose work
that that I can do but it seems it does
seem like
a defeat doesn't it it seems like giving
up I don't know because I haven't been
in that
position maybe there would be something
inside me going you know to hell with
this I can do what I want I'm you know
especially if you feel inside you like
that's the kind of thing you would want
to do there would be this defiant
feeling of like no I'm going to do
it this is a question of being
optimistic or pessimistic right positive
or negative I'm going to have to go for
the positive
option oh come on let's choose the first
one I vowed to show the world that I can
attain almost any career I want I can
get any career I want let's go for that
okay a few weeks after the interview so
we're back to back to present the
present day away from the Daydream again
and it's a few weeks after the interview
so it's official you didn't get the
job questions start swirling around
inside your mind
questions spinning around inside your
mind maybe disclosing your stutter was a
mistake and only made you look worse in
the interviewer's eyes it's impossible
to know and that doubt will be bothering
you for a while you message your friends
to let them know what happened they're
looking out of you're looking out of
your window at the bright afternoon sun
when you hear the Ping of an incoming
message it's Clementine hey it reads I'm
sorry to hear about your interview I'm
dealing with some difficult stuff too
right now want to hang out tonight and
talk about
it okay so the option is you could
really use a friend right now so yeah
let's do that let's hope that Clementine
is willing to listen to us talking about
our problems cuz it's not just that we
didn't get the job interview this is
a this seems to be a huge moment in our
life really where we decided when we
were 16 and it was touch and go we were
thinking I'm going to resign either I'm
going to resign myself to a half a life
or I'm going to prove to everyone that I
can do what I want and we chose that one
but we again didn't get a job and every
single day we struggle with this
every day hopefully Clementine
will
understand how bad I
feel and hopefully she'll be willing to
listen to me talking about it she is one
of my best friends or maybe Clementine
will just be like yeah yeah whatever
let's talk about my
problems I've got a feeling she's going
to do that let's see a few hours later
you're meeting up with Clementine and
finding a nice spot to talk things
out right it's been a while since you've
seen each other oneon-one
and you have a lot to catch up on a lot
of stuff you know that we need to find
out
about she confides in you about troubles
with her partner that's like right and
you nod understandingly and she lets out
all her worries so she's talking about
the problems with her boyfriend or
girlfriend or whatever um and so what do
we do we nod we we nod and listen to her
let her talk so what are we going we've
got one option which is to give her the
best best advice and support you can
which is pretty much the only thing you
can do as a friend right if you're
friends with Clementine this is what you
have to do is give her the best advice
and support you can problem is it's in
red it's printed in red it's going to be
difficult to do but we have to try and
do
this Clementine seems upset so you start
sharing some advice and comforting words
but predictably you only get so far
before your body starts fighting you it
takes a lot of struggling and shifting
words around and much more time than
you'd like to finally get all of your
thoughts out noticing that you
unconsciously averted your gaze during
your struggle so we've we we we we
averted our gaze meaning we we didn't
look at Clementine so we we looked away
we our while we were struggling to say
what we wanted to say we broke eye
contact with Clementine and looked away
maybe looked down or looked up or
somewhere else we averted our gaze
looked somewhere
else noticing that you unconsciously
averted your gaze during your struggle
you turn back towards your friend and
find an appreciative smile on her face
as she takes in your words so she
appreciates what what we're saying she
she appreciates it and you say sorry I
hope that was
helpful it was honestly I mostly wanted
I mostly just wanted to vent but you
actually gave me a lot to think
about that's
nice Clementine says I mostly wanted to
vent to vent means to basically just get
a lot of negativity off your chest when
you've got like negative bad feelings
inside you need to kind of get them out
you just vent and that would mean
complaining about stuff and just get it
all out to to vent your frustrations
right so she said I mostly just want to
vent but you actually gave me a lot to
think about ah good so what we want to
say is I'm glad I could help this is
written in yellow so this is going to be
a bit difficult to say I'm glad I could
help you smile back I'm I'm I'm glad I
could
help she looks pensive for a moment like
pensive like she's thinking about
something maybe
worried she says hey I hope that's not a
rude thing to ask ask but what's it like
to stutter how does it
feel you're taken aback by the question
taken a like you're sort of
surprised like you know taking a back
like literally you might move yourself
back a little bit like huh well that's a
surprise you're taken back by the
question you realize that no one has
ever asked you how it
felt you tell her about this the you
tell her about the phys ological
symptoms how your tongue seizes meaning
stops and your diaphragm constricts your
diaphragm is like a muscle uh under your
your lungs which goes down and up as you
breathe it's really important for
breathing you have to you're supposed to
breathe from your diaphragm so you tell
her about your physiological symptoms so
that's the the physical symptoms how
your tongue seizes your tongue just
won't make the right shape or movement
and your diaphragm constricts it goes
tight meaning you can't breathe
properly you tell her how tiring it it
can be to have to actively think about
something that most people do
effortlessly she seems stunned like like
really
shocked she seems stunned as you name a
few of the opportunities you've missed
due to being unable or unwilling to talk
she's like what really
most of all you want her to know that
what so we've got three options what do
we want her to know we want her to know
that you just want to be normal or you
just want to be accepted or you just
want to be taken
seriously well of course it's all three
we want to be normal we want to be
accepted we just want to be taken
seriously I don't know if I would want
to be normal I would want people to just
accept me for who I am
right I I I want to be myself which is
someone who has a stammer
um but I want people to accept me for
who I am I want to be
accepted she listens without
interjecting so without interrupting as
you get these years old frustrations and
Sorrows off your
chest careful not to monologue for too
long you wrap up your response and top
it off with a sigh of relief so you top
it off like the cherry on the cake or
the top you know the last piece that you
put on the top is a sigh of relief so
you you talk and then you end with
a sigh of relief oh it's so nice to be
able to talk with some it's so nice to
be able to talk about this with someone
I
I another major
block uh
her lips are still lightly curled into a
patient smile so she's still
smiling a moment
passes I just wish I could
feel accepted you
know as you resume your back and forth
you're tripped up by blocks left and
right but for once you don't care at all
you're not ashamed embarrassed or
stressed you can take as long as you
need you end the night feeling grateful
to have such a good friend and thinking
to yourself that maybe being accepted
isn't such an Impossible Dream after
all we've got another thing to click
here about being accepted isn't such an
Impossible Dream after all click that
and we did it achievement unlocked on
the fence equal parts overt and covert
so overt and covert so I guess that's
relating to if you're overt means you're
doing things obviously letting people
see your struggle and covert you're
managing to find ways to hide your
struggle and I got equal parts I got it
equally I was kind of on the fence in
that sense so the end here we finished
the game it's really nice to have been
to have a feeling of acceptance from a
friend on on a onetoone basis like that
that was a big step in the right
direction so the game ends like this
thank you for playing disfluent here are
the achievements you unlocked during
this playthrough so on the fence we were
equal parts overt and covert hold the
line so we got hung up hung up on hung
up on we got hung up on on the telephone
satisfied eat a delicious meal so we got
the the the good the meal was good
getting a hung up on wasn't so good even
though luckily we managed to get the
game at the end if you'd like to try
doing another playthrough be sure to
check out the extras on the title screen
you'll find options to disable text
animations and display your covertness
stat statistic as well as a list of all
the achievements so there you go so it
seems that I can go back to the the the
the title screen and check out the
extras okay that's where I can um as it
said uh disabled text animations so
there are moments in the in the story
where the the letters were actually
moving around to represent how difficult
it was to say them and I got my
different statistics as well so there
you go uh everybody that was disfluent
and I'm sure there are lots of other um
things that can happen in that game
depending on the choices that you make
those are the choices I made but you
could play that game and choose
different choices and I recommend that
you do that because you're going to No
Doubt come across a lot of the language
that we just went through it would be a
good idea to Discover It Again yourself
in your own time and read it and also I
just think it's actually a very very
effective U bit of interactive fiction
because Alice and gray has done a great
job there of um letting us know what
it's like what it feels like to be
disfluent or to have a speech impediment
or to have a stammer or a stutter uh and
you can see how it would affect you and
and affect your life um great really
enjoyed that hello everyone I'm just
interrupting here at the end because I
wanted to add a couple of comments that
I got from the author of this story
Allison gray I was in contact with her
about uh this episode and this story and
she um just added some things that I
thought would be interesting to add at
the end here so uh this is what Allison
wrote to me she said a few notes about
the story's development in case it could
be of interest to you or your viewers
first of all most of the events
described are based on things that
happened to me when I was younger and
the rest are inspired by anecdotes from
other people who stutter I'm doing great
nowadays but back then I really
struggled with my condition so that's
interesting the whole game is actually
based on real events and real
experiences uh she continued the plot
went through several changes as I wrote
and rewrote originally the central
conflict was going to be the challenge
of trusting professional help again
after a bad childhood experience with a
therapist but I ended up shifting my
focus to the double-edged sword of
covertness and overtness if the current
version comes across as anti- theapy in
any way that wasn't my intention and
I'll consider making adjustments in the
next update so that refers to I guess
that uh scene that uh daydream
where the main character remembers the
experience I think it was as an
8-year-old going to a therapist and you
know that the parents had obviously
taken her to a therapist to U try and
work out what's going on and the
therapist didn't really understand the
issue and um decided that the stutter
was a result of some other kind of uh um
psychological
issue and kind of got it all wrong and
it was really the other way around that
the stammer or stutter is actually a
neurological thing as I mentioned at the
beginning it's really a question of um
like Connections in the brain that
aren't properly linked which causes this
inability to make certain sounds and
stress and nervousness and irritation
those all make it worse which is why
those situations where the character
felt uptight or stressed that suddenly
made speaking so much more difficult but
it's PR arily a neurological problem so
the therapist didn't really understand
that and as a result um it was very
unsatisfying and also probably quite
traumatic and disturbing and upsetting
for this
8-year-old uh to not really understand
what the problem is what's going on is
it my fault how disappointed are my
parents you can imagine it would um
result in a lot of um problematic uh
feelings and thoughts and
also wrote this she said English is
actually my second language as I grew up
speaking exclusively French I'm pretty
proud of all the progress I've made and
so happy to have fulfilled my dream of
becoming an author I wish your viewers
the same success in their Journeys and
it warms my heart to see people like you
who spread the love of language so that
is inspiring isn't it everyone that the
author of this is a non-native speaker
or at least someone who has English as a
second language which is very impressive
that she's managed to write such a
well-written
evocative story like this so thanks to
Allison for her
comments uh there you go listeners uh
video viewers I hope you enjoyed that
too and that you picked up some bits of
English in the process as I said go back
through the game read it yourself you'll
find a link in the description for it
you can do it yourself and you could
copy paste words and phrases and stuff
like that if you wanted to otherwise
just read through it again in your own
time would be a good idea uh that's the
end of this episode thank you so much
for listening thank you for um taking
the time all the way through to the end
here uh leave your comments in the
comments section how did you get on uh
during that and you know how did you
feel how did it make you feel I got a
bit I got a bit emotional actually at
one point the bit in the therapist's
office was actually quite moving that
how um
how it must have felt to be
misunderstood and see the disappointment
in your parents' eyes that's hard that's
tough yeah and by the way if you are
someone who uh suffers from this
condition uh then you know it's it's
been fascinating to find out what that's
like you could leave your comments I'd
love to know what it's like for you and
if you've got anything to add and you
know just good luck to you basically and
I don't know what can you do uh I
suppose that there are places you can go
the British uh stammerers stammering
Association might be a good place to to
go actually um website St mm.org the
British stammering Association U it says
we make space for
stammering let's see if we can find out
more it's the largest UK charity and
membership organization representing
people who who stammer uh so you could
check it out you might be able
to read more and find out more it looks
like they're doing lots of different
work campaigns maybe some different
events you can become a member that
would be good to become part of a
community um and you might meet other
people who have a similar experience to
you and uh you could learn more about
stammering and how to deal with it and
how to deal with the sort of a lot of
the Annoying stuff that comes along with
it not just annoying a lot of the
debilitating frustrating things that
come along with it okay that's the end
of the episode though have a lovely
evening afternoon morning night Daytime
Nighttime lunch even lunch dinner
breakfast uh second breakfast cup of
coffee or tea or pint of low alcohol
logger or whatever it is that you're
doing um thank you for for staying with
me for this uh episode and I will speak
to you next time but for now it's time
to say goodbye bye bye bye bye